# Project: Data Modeling with Postgres

## Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## How to run scripts? 

1. First we need to open the terminal.
2. Then we need to run the following command:
        `python create_tables.py`
        
3. Then we need to run:
        `python etl.py`
        
## Files in directory

### data/song_data

This dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

### data/log_data

This dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.

## Schema

Using song_data and log_data datasets, we have used Star Schema here with songplays as fact table and rest of the tables i.e. users, songs, artists and time as dimensions table. 